# TAS2R38_mRNA_Analyses
Analysis provided in the "Tissue-dependent expression of bitter receptor TAS2R38 mRNA" manuscript

This repository is meant to provide the source code for the analysis provided in the above manuscript by Jennifer E. Douglas, Cailu Lin, Corrine J. Mansfield, Charles J. Arayata, Beverly J. Cowart, Andrew I. Spielman, Nithin D. Adappa, James N. Palmer, Noam A. Cohen, M.D. and Danielle R. Reed

Abstract: TAS2R38 is a human bitter receptor gene with a common but inactive allele; people homozygous for the inactive form cannot perceive certain bitter compounds. The frequency of the inactive and active form of this receptor is nearly equal in many human populations, and heterozygotes (with one copy of the active form and one copy of the inactive form) have the most common diplotype. However, heterozygotes differ markedly in their perception of bitterness, perhaps in part because of differences in TAS2R38 mRNA expression. Other tissues express this receptor, including the nasal sinuses, where it contributes to pathogen defense. We examined whether heterozygotes with high TAS2R38 mRNA expression in taste tissue were also likely to express more TAS2R38 mRNA in sinonasal tissue. We measured TAS2R38 bitter taste receptor mRNA by qPCR in biopsied tissue and found that expression amount in one is not related to the other. We confirmed the general independence of expression in other tissues expressing TAS2R38 mRNA, such as pancreas and small intestine, using autopsy data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project. Thus, taste tissue TAS2R38 mRNA expression among heterozygotes is unlikely to predict expression in other tissues, perhaps reflecting tissue dependence of the function and hence of the regulation of this protein.
